https://imgur.com/a/lY0DN4U

What is a server
A server is either a software program or hardware device (that can be your laptop) that provides a ‘service’ to a User called a Client. This relationship is called a client/server model. The client can also be a application that requests a service from the server.

Physical servers is a powerful computer that is wholly dedicated to a certain service like hosting a website. Virtual servers are virtual representation of a physical server.

What is the role of the domain name

Domain names are text-based labels that users write to get a website like google.com. Domain names resolve to IP address by going though the DNS servers.

What type of DNS record www is in www.foobar.com

The type of record is called CNAME or canonical names; a type of DNS record that maps an alias name to a true or canonical domain name.

What is the role of the web server

It is a software that commonly uses HTTP to respond to client requests made over the World Wide Web. It commonly hosts static content (web files) of the website. HTML files and images are examples of this kind of content.

The software can either be dedicated on its own server or as part of a embedded system.

What is the role of the application server

An application server is a modern form of platform middle-ware.

Application servers extend the ability of a web server to handle Web application requests. An application server enables a server to generate a dynamic content in response to a client request. It is commonly combined with the web server called web application server.

What is the role of the database

A database is information that is set up for easy access, management and updating. Database Management come in many types: Centralized Database, Distributed Database, Relational Database, NoSQL Database, Cloud Database, Object-oriented Databases. The most used of this is the Relational Database.

What is the server using to communicate with the computer of the user requesting the website

The server is using the TCP/IP (Internet Protocol), which is the most commonly used network connection on the internet; over which a HTTP request/response pair is done, which itself is commonly used transfer protocol to transfer data over the network.

Issues with the simple web stack
1. SPOF;

Single Point Of Failure (SPOF), is a part of the system that, if it fails the whole entire system stops from working.

The above infrastructure has no redundancy that can help in avoiding SPOFs, hence, any single failure in any part of the system will cause all the system to stop.

2. Downtime when maintenance needed (like deploying new code web server needs to be restarted);

The Infrastructure above, downtime will occur because we only have one server and one database, that is used to make the deployment and maintenance hence no way users will access the website in that period.

3. Cannot scale if too much incoming traffic;

The above infrastructure cannot scale if there’s too much incoming traffic because no second server in the system to share loads and the system will be overloaded.
